\documentclass[APA]{WileyNJD-v2}


% Pandoc citation processing

\usepackage{xcolor}
\usepackage{multirow}
\usepackage{multicol}
\usepackage{colortbl}
\usepackage{hhline}
\usepackage{longtable}
\usepackage{array}
\usepackage{hyperref}

\articletype{Research article}

\received{2017-01-01}

\revised{2017-02-01}

\accepted{2017-03-01}

\raggedbottom

\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}

\begin{document}

\title{Exploring team roles for social innovation labs: toward a
competence-based self-assessment approach}

\author[ERPI,UN]{Ferney Osorio*}
\author[ERPI]{Fabio A. Cruz Sanchez}
\author[ERPI]{Laurent Dupont}
\author[ERPI]{Mauricio Camargo}

\authormark{Uthor \emph{et al}.}

\address[ERPI]{Université de Lorraine - ERPI -F-54000, Nancy, France,}
\address[UN]{Departamento de Ingeniería de Sistemas e Industrial,
Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogotá, Colombia}

\corres{*Corresponding author name, This is sample corresponding
address. \email{authorone@gmail.com}}

\presentaddress{This is sample for present address text this is sample
for present address text}

\abstract{Recently, there has been a great interest in the development
of innovations labs as intermediate means to fostering social innovative
solutions to wicked problems. However, understanding how lab teams are
assembled including the underlying competences and main roles inside of
these organizational structures is still yet to be addressed. This
aspect is of paramount importance at the early-design phase to foster
the future development and consolidation of such initiatives. A
competence-based role model is proposed as a basis for guiding the
conformation of social innovation lab teams. The model has been
structured from (1) a set of 14 competences for social innovation labs
retrieved from the literature, (2) a comparison of 7 frameworks of
innovation team roles and (3) authors experience. The proposed model is
then operationalized through a self-assessment approach composed of an
online questionnaire and a retrospective workshop aiming to allow team
members to position themselves in terms of the potential role that they
could perform for their team but also to elicit improvement strategies.
The self-assessment methodology is then applied among 10 Latin American
nascent social innovation lab teams with focus on climate change
challenges. Insights and implications of this exploratory study for both
researchers and practitioners are then discussed.}

\keywords{innovation lab, social innovation, innovation team roles,
innovation competences, self-assessment}

\maketitle

\hypertarget{introduction}{%
\section{Introduction}\label{introduction}}

Today's most critical challenges demand systemic ways to tackle them.
Climate change, environmental degradation, health crisis, education
inequalities, and employment and poverty reduction are some examples of
those wicked problems characterized by their complexity, their
interdependencies and their context specificity \citep{Zivkovic2018}.
Social Innovation (SI) then emerges as a research strand for not only
helping to understand these societal issues but to facilitate the
development of systemic strategies toward a transformative change of
social practices in order to solve social problems and meeting local
demands \citep{Strasser2019}.

In particular, the notion of SI Labs has recently become a subject of
interest in the literature. SI labs emerge as an approach to keep up
with increasing changes and accumulating challenges that society deals
with and where more conventional approaches relying solely on
techno-centric approaches fall short \citep{Westley2015, Jezierski2014}.
Innovation labs are defined as semi-autonomous organizations dedicated
to facilitate innovation processes by allowing multi-stakeholders groups
to interact in open collaboration with the purpose of creating and
prototyping solutions to systemic challenges while strengthening
people's innovative and technological competences
\citep{Lewis2005, Gryszkiewicz2016, Zivkovic2018}. In this sense, SI
labs act as cross-pollinators of knowledge, creating dialogue, mixing
voices, allowing for new ideas to appear and to be translated into
alternative solutions \citep{Wascher2019}. The way these organizational
forms perform often depends on the problem that is being addressed and
the context they belong to. This means that the people, the
organizations involved and even the methods applied within a SI lab are
constantly changing \citep{Wascher2018}.

The changing and permeable nature of the ``lab'' phenomenon represents a
complex working environment which often leads to conditions of
uncertainty. This is something on which authors have raised concerns,
suggesting that those teams in charge of leading an innovation lab
should be able to deal with ambiguities, integrate multiple perspectives
and facilitate the work across-disciplines
\citep{Osorio2020, McGann2019}. There is an increasing interest in how
innovation labs can be used to address societal problems
\citep{McGann2019}; governments, companies, universities, and even
communities are continuously turning to the implementation of their own
``lab''. They are becoming vectors for fostering collaborative learning,
inclusive entrepreneurial thinking, systemic change and the transfer of
innovation capabilities
\citep{Delgado2020, RezaeeVessal2021, Rayna2019, Camargo2021}. However,
several questions arise when considering how the teams managing these
initiatives should be composed and organized
\citep{Lewis2020, Zivkovic2018}. This aspect is of paramount importance,
especially at the early-design phase to foster the future development
and consolidation of such initiatives.

In fact, the assembling of innovation teams has been a matter of
interest for a long time. Both practitioners and scholars from public
and private sectors have addressed and shared their experiences in the
nature and characteristics of innovations teams across time. This is a
vision that has been in constant evolution, referring for instance to
the 80's where corporate-type innovation teams, whose nature depended
mainly on the emergence of those `champions' capable of overcoming any
obstacle, while additional roles were organized towards supporting them
\citep{Roberts1982, Jenssen2004}. Then, as the adoption of open
innovation practices became more widespread, the idea of innovation
teams has progressively become more agile and adaptive, opening the door
to the integration of multiple disciplines, and being the inspiration
for new ways of work and collaboration
\citep{Hellstrom2002, Hering2005, Gemunden2007}. While the perception of
lonely innovators and isolated teams seems to persist today, the
increasing interconnection and complexity of the problems that we face
as society, the amount of information and knowledge that is continuously
created, and the challenging task of making critical decisions with
unforeseeable repercussions, are evidence on why today's innovation
teams are called to be able to efficiently collaborate under a multitude
of perspectives, disciplines and cultures
\citep{Bjorklund2017, Puttick2014-Teams}.

This is not a minor issue since it is in people where the success of
every innovation process of an organization lies \citep{Leonard1995}.
Thus, understanding the dynamics of group work and team performance has
been a topic of interest for the scientific community. In this regard,
previous studies have tackled this issue from several perspectives. In
terms of team theory for instance, \citet{Belbin2010} gathers in her
book an extensive research that resumes her proposition of the nine key
team roles at work. Originally published in 1993, Belbin explains in her
work why roles in a team are in fact the sum up of multiple factors such
as personal traits, knowledge, skills, experience and even situations
that will determine a person's behaviour in group work or in a specific
job. More specifically studies on innovation teams as the ones by
\citep{Kratzer2004, Kratzer2006-A, Kratzer2006-B} have focused on
examining how factors such as team communication, conflicts or
virtuality influence creativity performance. Likewise,
\citet{DeCusatis2008} pointed out how team performance varies based on
generational preferences, habits and the nature of the intended
innovation. Precisely, this changing nature of the innovation process
across time has opened the door for not only asking which roles are
required but also what are the competences needed for successful
innovation teams.

That is why researches like these of \citep{Chatenier2010} and
\citep{Podmetina2018} have proposed specific competence profiles, for
open innovation teams revealing what are the main tasks they perform,
the main challenges they face and the underlying competencies behind
them. \citet{Chatenier2010} pointed out that competence profiles are
instrumental for the creation and development of innovation teams.
However, besides their comprehensive and detailed model they also
suggest that a single competence profile falls short when it comes to
assembling effective innovation teams, specifically at the moment of
determining which competences need to be held by each team member and
for which role.

Despite the existing research, the literature remains scarce when
referring to what competences are key for guiding the conformation of SI
lab teams and under which roles can they be organized. This is a major
issue for the successful implementation of an innovation lab initiative,
since beyond physical and technological resources, human facilitation is
one of its fundamental pillars \citep{Magadley2009}. Furthermore, how
these aspects are early weighed in terms of the lab setup and its
context (i.e.~private, community or university) determines the type of
challenges a lab team will have to face \citep{Rayna2019}. But more
importantly, the strategies to overcome these challenges could be driven
or undermined according to the competences of the lab team, reflecting
also on how effectively they would be able to achieve the intended
social impact \citep{Rayna2021}. Therefore, the main focus of this
article lies on the identification of the key competences and roles that
could help the conformation of teams meant to be the bearers of SI
processes. Our goal is to propose a methodological approach for the
early design of SI lab teams. By means of a self-assessment tool, we
intend to provide practical guidance for the creation of more enduring
lab teams while at the same time we continue to create awareness on the
management of these organizational structures.

To this end, the article first elaborates on the concepts of SI lab,
competence and innovation roles. Next, a role-based framework is
developed by comparing seven existing conceptual frameworks drawn from
the literature on innovation teams and SI. Then, the proposed framework
is operationalized through a competence-based assessment tool (online
questionnaire) from which a self-assessment methodology is designed.
This approach is subsequently tested within the context of the Climate
Labs project, an Erasmus+ initiative whose aim is to strengthen the
applied research and innovation capacities of 10 Latin American Higher
Education Institutions in Mexico, Brazil and Colombia via the design and
implementation of Social Innovation Labs for mitigation and adaptation
to Climate Change. Results from this exploratory study evidence that the
chosen approach is instrumental in the characterization of teams at the
early stages of the implementation of a lab project inside Higher
Education Institutions, enabling them to elicit improvement strategies.
Lastly, discussion and conclusions are built around the main
implications of this work and suggested paths for future research.

\hypertarget{theoretical-background}{%
\section{Theoretical Background}\label{theoretical-background}}

\hypertarget{social-innovation-labs}{%
\subsection{Social Innovation Labs}\label{social-innovation-labs}}

SI refers to the new answers provided to the increasing unsatisfied or
badly-satisfied societal issues \citep{Gregoire2016}. It is understood
as the new social relations (doing, organizing, framing and knowing)
between people (e.g.~producers and consumers, citizens and government,
refugees and native inhabitants, etc.) as well as between people and any
other aspect in society (e.g.~people and nature, producers and their
products, etc.) \citep{Strasser2019}. SI has been described as being
context specific, these new social relations often lead to novel
practices that are meant to address social issues such as childcare,
education, unemployment, crime prevention, ageing population or climate
change \citep[ ]{Rayna2019, Dias2019}. This means that the value sought
through SI is primarily intended to benefit society rather than
individuals \citep{Moulaert2014}. A key difference from other innovation
approaches, such as technological innovation, is that the focus is not
necessarily on new technologies or material infrastructure but to
contribute to solving social problems where technology is seen as a
means for that purpose \citep{Mulgan2006, Murray2010}. In that sense, SI
mainly consists of taking advantage of existing competences and
expertise within the population to find more effective, efficient or
sustainable ways to tackle current demanding issues
\citep{Strasser2019}. This also implies that SI solutions are a product
of relational changes that prioritize values rather than status, purpose
rather than profit, co-ownership rather than hierarchy, and
collaboration rather than competition
\citep{Strasser2019, Gregoire2016}.

Recently, the term SI lab has been used for framing the different
organizational forms that agglomerate teams and methods with the
intention of creating socially innovative initiatives
\citep{Jezierski2014, Westley2015, Wascher2019}. The notion of
innovation labs has been present in the literature for several years now
\citep{Osorio2019-A}, building on the more classic ``lab'' idea usually
associated to the physical or natural sciences, to establishing itself
as a ``safe haven for experimentation, focused on problem solving and
solution creation'' \citep{Bloom2016}. Among the constellation of labs,
SI labs raise with the particular focus on addressing complex social
problems and enabling coherent action by multiple stakeholders
\citep{Zivkovic2018}. They do so by providing the space and processes
for facilitating collaboration among cross-sector stakeholders in order
to develop new projects, products, tools, regulations, policies, etc.
\citep{Wascher2018}.

SI labs are characterized because they foster the creation of dialogue,
listening and mixing the different voices of the actors involved, and
creating boundary objects (e.g.~prototypes, illustrations, concepts,
scenarios, and maps) for knowledge co-production processes to allow
diverse actors to work together
\citep[See][]{Nilsson2015, Lake2016, Timmermans2020}. Ultimately, they
act as cross-pollinators of co-creation methods, approaches and
perspectives between groups allowing to stimulate and channel collective
creativity so that new ideas constantly emerge
\citep{Jezierski2014, Rayna2019}. Despite how promising it is to pursue
the innovation lab approach, it is important to keep in mind that this
is a response to keep up to increasing and accumulating changes that we
live today and where more conventional approaches fall short
\citep{Zivkovic2018, RezaeeVessal2021}. That is to say, to embark on
such an initiative implies to deal with uncertainty, ambiguity and
tensions that are inherent aspects of working on such complex and
changing conditions \citep{Osorio2019, Jezierski2014}. This is why
organizations willing to create their own ``lab'' need to be aware of
the challenges and opportunities that this type of initiative entails.

SI lab teams perform in permeable and changing environments where people
and organizations come and go depending on the problem that is being
addressed and the parties to whom it is relevant \citep{Wascher2018}.
These ever-changing conditions demand for teams who value and practice
flexibility and agility in order to make the most of the ecosystem. Lab
teams should possess a wide range of competences that allow them to be
open to transitions and comfortable with ambiguities; use multiple
lenses to integrate multiple perspectives; and be able and willing to
work across-disciplines so resources can be mobilized in creative ways
\citep{Jezierski2014, Puttick2014-Teams, Rayna2021}. Still, literature
seems to remain scarce when it comes to providing guidance on which
competences should SI lab teams have or focus their development in order
to succeed. In the next subsection, we explore this issue in order to
establish a common ground for what set of competences a team for a SI
lab should have.

\hypertarget{competence-and-social-innovation-labs}{%
\subsection{Competence and social innovation
labs}\label{competence-and-social-innovation-labs}}

From organizational and managerial perspectives, development of human
competences is a fundamental task in the path of innovation and
successful organizations \citep{Leonard1995}. Understanding individual
competences is key for enabling teams and organizations to perform and
adapt in rapidly changing conditions \citep{Sandberg2000}. In general,
the concept of \emph{competence} is understood as the capability of an
individual to deliver sustainable and effective performance in a
specific domain, job, role, organizational context or situation
\citep{Mulder2014}. A \emph{competence} consists of various
\emph{competencies} that coherently cluster a set of knowledge, skills,
attitudes and experience \citep{Mulder2014}. In that sense, competence
profiles are often used to represent the functional and behavioral
competencies that are required to successfully meet complex demands in a
particular context \citep{Chatenier2010}.

In the context of open innovation for instance, \citep{Chatenier2010}
proposed in their work a competence profile for open innovation teams
based on 20 semi-structured interviews and 2 focus groups with
professionals that had participated in open innovation projects in the
agribusiness sector. Based on their empirical findings, they built a
profile composed of 4 main competence categories and 34 key competencies
to accomplish three main tasks of an open innovation team: (1) managing
the inter-organizational collaboration process, (2) managing the overall
innovation process and (3) creating new knowledge collaboratively. They
consider that a team having competence in self-management, interpersonal
management, project management and content management should be better
prepared to deal with the challenges behind those main tasks.

In a similar way, \citet{Podmetina2015} proposed an open innovation
specialist profile based on a large-scale survey with 528 European
companies. By inquiring on the required and desired competencies that an
employee should have for implementing open innovation, they build a
profile composed of six categories of competencies: collaboration
skills, interdisciplinary skills, methodic skills, explorative skills,
transformational skills and exploitative skills. This work will
subsequently lead to the proposition of a competence model for open
innovation in which direct links between competencies, key activities
and roles are made at the organizational level \citep{Podmetina2018}.
This holistic understanding of what constitutes a person's essentials
elements for performing in a determined task or role is instrumental for
assembling teams and training professionals \citep{Mulder2014}.
Furthermore, a competence profile can also be used as an assessment tool
of ongoing teams in order to spark reflecting processes
\citep{Sandberg2000}. This ultimately allows managers for identifying
whether there is room for improvement and deciding what kind of actions
are worth pursuing in order to enhance a team's performance, especially
in the complex and uncertain circumstances such as the ones of
facilitating innovation processes \citep{Chatenier2010}. Nevertheless,
although the studies conducted by \citep{Chatenier2010} and
\citep{Podmetina2018} are presented as specific but not unique to the
open innovation context, little has been studied in terms of SI and SI
labs.

While the existing literature on SI labs constantly highlights the
importance of the lab team and the selection of the staff, most of
today's experiences and insights rely on generic statements such as the
need of people with mixed profiles and backgrounds to reflect the social
reality, with both traditional skills such as project management and
communications and innovation skills to get things done, or with
networking skills to gather participants and build connections
\citep{Puttick2014-Teams, Kieboom2015, Jezierski2014}. Acknowledging the
importance of this issue, \citet{Wascher2018} gathered from the
literature a set of 14 competences which they proposed as key for a SI
lab team (see Table 1). They consider that the combination of all of
these competences should help the team to successfully manage and
facilitate cross-sector collaborations. Furthermore, these teams tend to
be relatively small, usually composed by a lab manager, administrative
staff and members dedicated to the lab-process facilitation
\citep{Wascher2018}. Yet, there is no evidence that suggests what are
the required roles for a SI lab and further, which competences are
needed to effectively perform those roles.

\providecommand{\docline}[3]{\noalign{\global\setlength{\arrayrulewidth}{#1}}\arrayrulecolor[HTML]{#2}\cline{#3}}

\setlength{\tabcolsep}{2pt}

\renewcommand*{\arraystretch}{1.5}

\begin{longtable}[c]{|p{1.00in}|p{4.00in}}

\caption{SI Lab list of competences retrieved from [@Wascher2018]}\\

\hhline{~~}

\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{CFCFCF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{11}{11}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{\textbf{Competence}}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{CFCFCF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{11}{11}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{\textbf{Description}}}} \\



\endfirsthead

\hhline{~~}

\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{CFCFCF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{11}{11}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{\textbf{Competence}}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{CFCFCF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{11}{11}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{\textbf{Description}}}} \\

\endhead



\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Project management}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Competence in planning and implementing innovative projects; meeting legal requirements as well as financial expertise, contracts and agreements on the use of space}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Moderation}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Competence for integrating emerging ideas and orient projects}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Mediation}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Competence for helping project parties understand and focus on the important issues needed to reach a conflict resolution}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Networking}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Competence for building connections and relationships with local organizations}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Participation}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Competence in fostering mechanisms for the involvement of the parties in the project's decision-making processes}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Communication}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Competence for empathy, change of perspective and use of media in a clear, positive, conversational fashion}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Self-organization}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Competence for ambiguity and frustration tolerance, confidence and self-esteem}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Intercultural}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Competence in ensuring inclusivity throughout the project}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Evaluation}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Competence in the design of mechanisms for monitoring strategies and results}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Research methods and interdisciplinary work}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Competence for working under interdisciplinary environments using diverse research methods such as critical thinking, data analytics, social research, anthropology, etc.}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Design methods and creative thinking}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Competence in applying design methods such as design thinking, theory of change planning, etc.}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Information and telecommunication techniques}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Competence in technological techniques that provide support to the project development}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Entrepreneurial thinking}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Competence in project incubation processes and ventures}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Systems thinking}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 4in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{9}{9}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Competence in addressing challenges in a holistic way and being able to examine the links and interactions between all the constituent elements}}} \\



\end{longtable}

\hypertarget{innovation-teams-roles}{%
\subsection{Innovation Teams \& Roles}\label{innovation-teams-roles}}

The idea of thinking on what are the roles or behaviors that are
required to facilitate the innovation process within an organization is
not new at all. One can refer to the notion of ``champion'' back in the
60's where the success of the innovation process was attributed to the
one single person who was willing to fail for a doubtful idea but
capable of reaching success \citep{Roberts1982, Jenssen2004}.
Nevertheless, the aim of reflecting on innovation roles is no longer to
create heroes that prevail against all odds. Instead, it consists of
building strong teams aware of their strengths and weaknesses so that
they can find ways to overcome the barriers in the path of realizing the
intended innovation process \citep{Gemunden2007}. Indeed, innovation
does not originate and sustain itself, but rather through the people who
make it happen through teams that push their imagination, resilience and
perseverance \citep{Kelley2005}.

It is in this sense that literature on innovation teams and roles has
evolved, as innovation processes have become more open, collaborative
and social, so it has been the case for the roles needed to facilitate
these processes. By diving into the literature of innovation teams we
intend to illustrate the diversity of roles that members of an
innovation team can have which subsequently could be of inspiration for
the set up of a lab team. Under this context, seven models of innovation
roles have been found in the literature (Figure 1) which will be now
discussed.

One of the earliest innovation role models that can be found is the one
proposed by \citep{Roberts1982}. Their proposition is composed of five
roles needed to fulfil the critical functions for a technology-based
innovation process. These are the \emph{idea generator}, the
\emph{entrepreneur} or \emph{champion}, the \emph{project leader}, the
\emph{gatekeeper} and the \emph{coach}. The intention was to highlight
those key functions that were not always explicit in formal job
structures. They also acknowledge that depending on the size of the team
or the organization, some roles need to be fulfilled by more than one
person, while some individuals can perform more than one role, and that
ultimately, the roles someone can fulfil will change over a person's
career. But beyond considering a role as purely functional, it is even
more important to ask how a person is going to behave within a team.
Under the premise that people's useful behaviors can be grouped into a
set of related clusters, \citep{Belbin2010} condensed in her book
(originally published in 1993) the nine team roles which make an
effective contribution to team performance: \emph{plant, resource
investigator, coordinator, shaper, monitor evaluator, teamworker,
implementer, completer finisher and specialist}. Even though the Belbin
team roles are not exclusively for an innovation team, they represent an
important part of team theory that should be considered.

More recently, \citet{Hering2005} presented eight innovation roles
making emphasis on those that are required for a generic innovation
process. They detailed the features of what can be expected of these
roles rather than just titles or job descriptions. According to them,
\emph{connector, librarian, framer, judge, prototyper, monitor} and
\_storyteller \_are the roles that should be sought to set-up an
innovation team. Organization's commitment and a belief system are also
considered critical for them in order to have the time and the resources
for innovation teams to deal with the uncertainty involved in any
innovation process. Alternatively, \citet{Kelley2005} published their
book \emph{Ten Faces of Innovation} based on their experiences at IDEO.
They condensed ten persona descriptions as a way to inspire the roles
that members of an organization should play to foster creativity and
innovation. They consider that each role or persona helps to bring on
the table specific values, tools, skills and thus, it is important to
assure their presence in any innovation team. These ten roles are
grouped in \emph{learners} (anthropologist, experimenter and
cross-pollinator), \emph{organizers} (hurdler, collaborator and
director) and \emph{builders} (experience architect, set designer,
caregiver and storyteller).

Based on 104 interviews with representatives of German enterprises and
42 cases from questionnaires, \citet{Gemunden2007} proposed a model to
assess whether the influence of certain innovation roles increase the
success of new product development under increasingly more open
innovation contexts. They pointed out that not only innovation and
technological experts are present (\emph{expert promoter} and
\emph{process promoter}), but strong leadership (\emph{project leader})
as well as good external relationships (\emph{technology and market
relationships promoters}). Moreover, they emphasized the importance of
having institutional support in the form of \emph{power promoters}. In
more recent years, \citep{Goduscheit2014} builds on the work initiated
by \citep{Gemunden2007}. In this case, he seeks to further develop the
concept of innovation promoters. This notion is established on the basis
that innovation teams are meant to overcome the barriers and
difficulties to successful innovations. His interest was to explore the
inter-organizational dimension among the innovation roles proposed by
\citep{Gemunden2007} by analyzing how they interact/perform with
multiple organizations. As a result, he further develops the innovation
promoters model by moving from the original six roles to a proposition
of nine roles: \emph{seniority, top-level representative, technological
expert, methodology expert, intra-organizational process,
inter-organizational process, project process, technology relationship
and} market relationship.

Finally, we refer to the very interesting work conducted by
\citep{Nystrom2014}. They also build on the work realized by
\citep{Gemunden2007} on analyzing the roles for an open innovation
context but they center their research on the influence these roles can
have on innovation networks. For this, they studied 26 living labs
leading to a final proposition of 17 roles that network actors can adopt
or create during an innovation project. The new roles identified are
mostly related to the users and the facilitators (\emph{e.g.,
co-creator, orchestrator, contributor}), which correspond to living lab
approaches that encourage multi-stakeholder involvement. They also state
the importance of innovation roles to combine multiple perspectives due
to the increasing complexity of innovation projects. This is something
that relates to the more systemic and transdisciplinary approach that is
required on SI projects.

Throughout this literature review it is possible to observe that despite
the diversity of perspectives, processes or names, authors agree that
unbalanced teams and frequent changes can disturb how an innovation team
performs. This is a challenge that definitely should be considered in
the conformation of an innovation lab. However, none of the role models
establishes a direct link between the proposed roles and the adequate
competences that should allow a person to fulfil it. Nor any of the
identified studies is developed under the SI context. These elements are
taking into account the proposition of this article in the next section.

\hypertarget{methodology}{%
\section{Methodology}\label{methodology}}

Throughout the theoretical background presented before, the principles
behind the notion of SI labs have been explored, along with the dynamics
that lab teams are deemed to deal in such kind of context. Several
questions have been raised in terms on which roles would allow a SI lab
team to be better prepared to accomplish their mission. And further,
what set of competences would be necessary for these teams to thrive in
such conditions. Accordingly, seven innovation role models have been
retrieved from the literature on innovation teams as well as a set of 14
competences considered as key for SI lab teams. However, since research
on how managerial teams of innovation labs perform, and more
specifically those within the SI context remains unexplored, through
this study we intend to establish a connection between theory from
competences for innovation and innovation teams in order to hypothesize
on the essentials elements that should be considered in the process of
assembling a SI lab team. To this end, a four-stage process was designed
for conducting this research as shown in Figure 2.

Firstly, based on the literature review an adapted role model is
proposed. Since none of the previous role models for innovation teams
were rooted in SI nor innovation labs, we aim to take into consideration
the 14 identified competences to make a model proposition adapted to the
conditions of this research. Following this, the proposed model is
operationally defined as an assessment tool (online questionnaire) that
would ultimately be applied under a self-assessment approach. Given the
practical motivation behind this exploratory study, is to support 10
latin-american university teams to set up the lab team for their own SI
lab within the frame of the Erasmus+ Climate Labs project, we opted to
pursue a self-assessment approach with a two-fold purpose. Firstly, to
use the proposed approach to spark reflecting processes that would allow
the university teams to increase awareness of their current status
toward the expected roles. And secondly, to have a comprehensive role
characterization at the early stage of the project encompassing all the
lab teams according to their own perception of the degree of mastery of
such competences.

Due to the transcontinental nature of the Climate Labs project, the
application of the self-assessment approach was conducted virtually by
means of the online questionnaire and an online workshop. The proposed
approach was designed so each lab team member (including professors,
researchers, students, and administrative staff) could participate and
be part of the process. A total of 65 answers were received along with
the workshop results for each team. Results and insights are then
analyzed and discussed so conclusions can be made in order to provide
guidelines for the future of the Climate Labs project but also to the
further development of this study.

\hypertarget{proposition-of-a-competence-based-role-model-for-si-lab-teams}{%
\section{Proposition of a competence-based role model for SI Lab
teams}\label{proposition-of-a-competence-based-role-model-for-si-lab-teams}}

Despite several insights from empirical studies and different statements
of which functions or behaviours are possible to find in an innovation
team, the propositions and explanations fall short when it comes to the
specificity of innovation lab teams. We therefore believe that it is
reasonable to think that by establishing a clearer connection between
competences for SI labs and innovation team theory a model can be
proposed. First, drawing from the 14 competences proposed by
\citep{Wascher2018}, a categorization was made thinking on which main
functions could be proposed. Based on the literature and according to
knowledge and experience of the authors, four categories of competences
were identified as illustrated in Table 2. This was done in terms of
those competences that contribute the most to one of the following
functions: (1) innovation process orchestration, (2) materialize
systemic solutions, (3) spark connections and new ideas, and those that
contribute to (4) organizing and measuring results.

\providecommand{\docline}[3]{\noalign{\global\setlength{\arrayrulewidth}{#1}}\arrayrulecolor[HTML]{#2}\cline{#3}}

\setlength{\tabcolsep}{2pt}

\renewcommand*{\arraystretch}{1.5}

\begin{longtable}[c]{|p{1.00in}|p{0.80in}|p{0.80in}|p{0.80in}|p{0.80in}}

\caption{Categorization of SI lab team competences}\\

\hhline{~~~~~}

\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{CFCFCF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{\textbf{Competence}}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{CFCFCF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{\textbf{Orchestrate Innovation Process}}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{CFCFCF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{\textbf{Materialize Systemic Solutions}}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{CFCFCF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{\textbf{Spark Connections \& Ideas}}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{CFCFCF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{\textbf{Organize and measure results}}}} \\



\endfirsthead

\hhline{~~~~~}

\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{CFCFCF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{\textbf{Competence}}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{CFCFCF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{\textbf{Orchestrate Innovation Process}}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{CFCFCF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{\textbf{Materialize Systemic Solutions}}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{CFCFCF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{\textbf{Spark Connections \& Ideas}}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{CFCFCF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{\textbf{Organize and measure results}}}} \\

\endhead



\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Project management}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{X}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Moderation}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{X}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Mediation}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{X}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Networking}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{X}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Participation}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{X}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Communication}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{X}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Self-organization}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{X}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Intercultural}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{X}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Evaluation}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{X}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Research methods and interdisciplinary work}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{X}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Design methods and creative thinking}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{X}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Information and telecommunication techniques}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{X}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Entrepreneurial thinking}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{X}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\cellcolor[HTML]{EFEFEF}\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} \\





\multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 1in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{Systems thinking}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{X}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} & \multicolumn{1}{!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}>{\raggedright}p{\dimexpr 0.8in+0\tabcolsep+0\arrayrulewidth}!{\color[HTML]{000000}\vrule width 0pt}}{\fontsize{8}{8}\selectfont{\textcolor[HTML]{000000}{}}} \\



\end{longtable}

\newpage

\bibliography{bibfile.bib}


\end{document}
